in the previous video we created a
button click counter app that increased
the number each time the button was
clicked and then displayed the results
in the text view now there's a reason
I've got you in a port of plain text
widget in the layout though that saw the
one here if we open up the layout and
have a look and design you find here in
the top left hand corner the edit text
I didn't just add that to make the
challenge more challenging what we're
going to do is change the app instead of
just adding the same text with a
different number we're going to allow
you to type text into the edit text and
then add it to the list of items in the
text view now you've seen that so we can
put text into a text view either by
changing its text property or using its
append method and then the text is just
an extended text view so it's got the
same properties and functions so you can
probably guess that we can retrieve the
text from an edit text widget by
accessing its text property and of
course we use that text property in the
previous video so let's make a few
changes now to the code when we go back
to that code and main activity and then
we're going to start off by deleting the
code here on line 15 and delete that
line
now we'll do that
notice how Android studio now highlights
all the places where it's used in the
code you can see numtimesclicked now is
undefined so we get an error every time
we try to use it in the code and this is
quite interesting that that's I've been
recording this video we've got a new
release of : so if you do see that from
time to time certainly go ahead and
install it and what I'll do is I'll go
through that process now just to show
you what that looks like I've clicked
install and give it a moment this is
something that you will see from time to
time you can see at the moment of
downloading plugins as things are
updated new versions of software comes
out and generally when you see a pop-up
like that it's certainly recommended
that you take the new version because
it's usually fixed bugs and added new
features
okay you can see that tire update has
gone through and it's asking us to
restart Android studio to activate the
changes in the plugins so I'm going to
click on that yes or click on it I
should say to say yes to the fact that
we do and then updated give them a
moment to restart
there's Android studio restarting for us
again
and we're back to where we were before
and we also give this update now that
we've actually gone ahead with the
update you may or may not get this
message and is basically saying that the
plug-in version is a new one the runtime
lobby should be updated to avoid
compatibility problems and you certainly
do want that to happen so I'm going to
click on update runtime
okay so we've restarted now and as I was
saying that Tinnell that we deleted that
line 15 you saw that the number times
clicked is being highlighted in red now
to indicate that there's a problem now
because that variable is now undefined
now over on the right hand side in
addition to the red showing in the main
text there's these little red buttons in
the little bit red bars I should say in
the margin and I'll just move the scroll
bar so you can see that and these show
that there are problems in the code and
you can see those I'm hovering over them
we're actually getting a little while
code box show up showing us where the
problem is and what the actual issue is
you can see here it says unresolved a
reference number
sometimes clicked and that's coming up
because I deleted the declaration and
Android studio is saying it hasn't got
any idea what number times clicked is
anymore and consequently the codes not
going to compile from that reason so
really that's Android studio trying to
help us so that we don't produce code
with errors if we click on the bar it's
take you as you saw there to the line of
code that's got the error and that makes
life a lot easier when you're getting
lots of them and obviously in this small
snippet of code tab wasn't really that
noticeable where that wasn't really that
noticeable that the cursor moved but if
I move this up to here and then click it
you can see the text does move to the
area where the problem is for us to
hopefully YAG sort out well so what
we're going to do now is remove most of
this the contents of this on click
method so what I'm going to do is remove
the if in actually the entire block of
if code there the if/else block in other
words I'm going to delete that I'm gonna
also move up here and delete this line
this num light numtimesclicked plus
equals one and leaving just the textview
line and we're going to change this now
instead of having the the button got
tapped and how many times I'm going to
delete that out believe the parentheses
there and within there I'm going to put
user import question mark dot text
now that should work but what I've done
by deleting the other code is I've also
deleted the code that was adding a line
break between each entry you might think
you could just add the backslash into
the text
but that will give an error so you try
that you can see I can come into here I
try adding a plus and then backslash n
in double quotes we actually get an
error here now the problem is that the
text property is an editable not a
string now we can check that by holding
down the control key and hovering over
text or because I'm on a Mac I'm going
to hold down the command key but do that
you can see in here it actually says
that public editable get text and so
therefore because it's an editable well
not a string we can't use a plus to
concatenate a string and an editable so
what we really need to do is split that
line up into two separate append calls
so we'll leave that to first loan as it
was then what we'll do is come on to the
next line and we'll put text view
question mark dot append double quotes
in a backslash in we now no longer get
an error because we're not trying to do
a concatenation all right so there's the
only two changes we need to make now so
let's run the app and see that it's
still working okay you'll confirm that
it does work okay so I'll just connect
to my device Y emulator then I've got
running
all right so this is our app so let's
just try deleting that name out that
we've got tight in there I'll put more
LEM in there click on the button and you
can see that it's successfully added my
name there into the text view and if we
change that now to something else
click on the button and we get
jean-paul's name added there as well so
that's actually working well now now you
might use a technique like this to
create a to-do list for example now what
we've got here is a very simple app but
we've seen how to create the layout get
a button to do something useful when
it's tapped and also to make a text view
widget scrollable now i've written the
code this way because i think it's easy
to understand but some aspects of this
code are closer to java than to how
you'd write it in Kotlin in fact this is
close to the code weekend if Android
studio converted to Java for us now
we're going to be doing that a little
bit later in the course because it's a
very useful feature Kotlin in Android
studio is still very new and most of the
code samples you find online at the
moment will be written in Java now
because you can take those Java examples
and get Android studio to convert them
to Kotlin that's not a problem and as
I've said you can't really write Kotlin
programs for Android without knowing a
little bit about Java anyway and that's
because the Android frameworks can't
really written in Java and we have to
use the framework classes in our apps so
what we're going to do now is make a few
small changes to our code so that fits
more in line with how Kotlin code should
be written so the first thing we're
going to do is we're going to delete
those button and user input properties
that we've declared at the start of the
class now even in Java button wouldn't
be declared up there it's only actually
used in the oncreate method so there's
really no point making in a class level
property now what may not be so up is to
Java program as though is that all three
properties can be converted to local
variables of the oncreate method in case
you're wondering the reason that two
user import and textview and different
two button is that they're also used in
the onclick method so if all the three
properties could be converted to like
variables why mainly going to convert
two of them well that's a good question
and it's also a good opportunity to show
why you want a widget reference to be a
class property rather than a local
variable so we don't answer this
question a little later to be clear
though as our code is at the moment I
could do the same thing with text view
as well the reason I'm not doing it it's
going to become clear soon so I'm going
to delete the user input as well as the
button now by doing that we've got
errors further down that's because
they're no longer declared so we just
need to change the assignments into
declarations so let's go ahead and do
that so down here on line 18 I'm going
to start by typing Val be al user input
in : gedit text so you can see there
that removes the first error and for the
next one we're putting Val the AL space
button :
and then button with a capital B and
both errors are now removed now notice
that I've declared them as Val rather
than var and that's because we don't
need them to be writable once we've used
final D by ID to assign the reference to
the widget we're not going to change
them now because of that that allows us
to remove the question mark when we set
the buttons onclicklistener and also
when we access user inputs text property
because we're no longer initializing
those values to null so let's go ahead
and make a change to that nil so firstly
for the button onclick listener line
here I can change that now to remove the
question mark it's just going to be
button dot set on click listener then
down here over where it's got user input
now that we've made that a valence data
VAR I can delete the question mark there
as well and again we're doing that
because we don't need them to be
writable all right so at this point I'm
going to finish the video we'll continue
on with working on this in the next
video